## Transaction

    /UI2/FLP - Fiori Launchpad

    /UI2/FLPD_CUST - FLP Designer
    /UI2/FLPD_CONF

    /UI2/FLPCM_CUST - Content Manager
    /UI2/FLPCM_CONF

    /UI2/FLPAM - Application Manager (Rarely used, it manages technical catalogs).


    APP: F4512 - Manage launchpad Spaces
    APP: F4512 - Manage Launchpad Pages

    /UI2/FLPCA - Content Aggregator
    - It fetch the report of all catalogs, roles, services, & spaces into a report format.

    /IWFND/MAINT_SERVICE - Activate & Maintain Services
    - To check if any services are active or not;security person need in troubleshoot scenario's.

    /IWFND/ERROR_LOG - SAP Gateway Error Log
    - Any error that comes up in the fiori comes under this log report.

    SICF - Edit HTTP Service Hierarchy




## Definition
1. What are the types of SAP Fiori Apps?

Based on the apps functionality: SAP Classifies apps into 3 types

- Transactional apps - Perform transactional tasks (E.g. Create Purchase Order).
- Analytical Apps - Real time analysis using SAP Hana.
- Fact sheets - Display contextual information and link to other apps.

Based on the underlying technology, which is more relevant for SAP security consultants. we can classify apps into 3 types:

- Transactional / GUI apps - These are classic SAP GUI transactions, which can run in a web browser. These apps retain the old SAP GUI layout but run inside the fiori launchpad (GUI for HTML).
- UI5 Apps - These are native Fiori apps built using (HTML5 & JaveScript). They provide a fully responsive, modern experience.
- Wb Dynpro Apps - these are older apps built with web Dynpro ABAP, though not native fiori but they can be integrated into the fiori launchpad using a tile


2. What are catalogs in SAP Fiori?
- Catalogs are collections of tiles (apps) grouped logically. Users see only the apps available in the catalogs assigned to their roles.

3. What are SAP Fiori Groups?
- Groups are visual groupings of apps displayed on the launchpad. They offered a way to organize the tiles in older version of S/4 Hana. Groups have been deprected in from 2021 onwards, and SAP recommend to go with Spaces & Pages.

4. What are SAP Fiori Spaces & Pages ?
- Spaces and Pages are part of the new launchpad layout, replacing groups. They allow structured navigation with better user experience and personalization. Its basically a way to group the apps based on the business needs.

5. what is the difference between a Technical catalog and business catalog?

###### Technical catalog
- Technical catalog contains all available fiori apps definition (launchpad content like tiles and target mappings) grouped for a specific area.
- They contain a lot of apps which not all of them directly to business roles (Using them in technical roles for testing is fine).
- You can identify technical catalogs through *_TC_* in their name.

###### Business catalog
- It is filtered, business role specific subset of the technical catalog(S), containing only the apps relevant to a specific business user or role. It is used in PFCG roles for providing access to Business users.
- You can identify SAP Business catalogs through *_BC_* in their name.
