##### FES: Frontend Server  // BES: Backend Server
-----------------------------------------------------
### End User Role: Fiori Launch Pad

###### Embedded System Approach:

    SAP Standard Role: SAP_FLP_USER
    Custom Role: ZCUST_FLP_USER

- Fiori Launchpad: /UI2/FLP
- URL: https://<Server>:<port>/sap/bc/ui2/flp
     {Structure might change but format will be same}.


        IWSG - Gateway services groups metadata - for Fiori Frontend System.
        IWSV - Gateway business suite enablement - Services.


###### Step by step process to add Services in a Fiori Role:

>> - Go to PFCG
>> - Under Menu 
>> - Transaction / Authorization defaults
>> - In Authorization defaults: SAP Gateway Business Suite Enablement - Services(IWSV) and SAP Gateway Services Group Metadata (IWSG)
>> - Object Type: ISWG / IWSV
>> - Give relevant services as per authorization defaults.
>> - Copy
>> - Go to Authorization Tab 
>> - Change Authorization data
>> - Check for any values to be assigned, maintain as required (This is optional).
>> - SAVE and Generate

- The above services will be added to:

        Authorization Object: S_SERVICE
        Program(SRV_NAME): /UI2/EASY_ACCESS_MENU
        Type of check flag(SRV_TYPE): HT

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#### Fiori End User Role - Gateway (Central Hub / Gateway Deployment)

    Standard Role: SAP_BES_FLP_USER
    Custom Role: Z_BES_FLP_USER

###### Step by step process to add Services in a Fiori Role:

>> - Create an End User role - Z_BES_FLP_USER
>> - Here, we only maintain the required RFC and Autorization objects
>> - Add Authorization for S_RFC and S_RFCAL objects manually if they were not pulled using any other transactions (To connection b/w frontend and backend).
>> - Maintain the values under authorization objects (These are critical so be aware of what you add in the fields).
>> - Create User ID in BES and assign the role to user for testing.

- Note: For RFC use TRACE to fetch the values captured in RFC authorizations.

##### Summary:

    FES - Create end user role copying from standard SAP role.
    BES - Required authorization for S_RFC & S_RFCACL objcets so that the frontend can connect to backend system.

### Administrator Role

    SAP standard role: SAP_FLP_ADMIN
    Custom Role: Z_FLP_ADMIN

###### Step by step process to add services in a fiori ADMIN role:

>> - Go to PFCG
>> - Under MENU
>> - Add Transaction / Authorization Defaults (apart from if you need additonal if you copy the role from standard role).
>> - Authorization defaults: Object Type: ISWG / IWSV
>> - Give relevant services as per authorizations defaults
>> - Copy
>> - Go to Authorization Tab : Change Authorization Data
>> - Check for any values to be assigned, maintain necessary fields that are required.
>> - SAVE and Generate.

###### Most Important Services:

    - Configure
    - Content Manager: Client Specific
    - Manage Spaces & Pages
    - Manage Launchpad
    - Transport