### 1. Authorization Flow:

##### Frontend:
    - Initially end user is given a launchpad access to Fiori.
    - He/she further need access to Catalog (refers from PFCG role)
                                       |- Spaces / Page

    - In Spaces / Pages, the user will be having his/her tiles (App Launcher) associate with Target Mapping.
    - Once user click on tile, it will redirect to SAP Fiori Apps.

##### Backend: 
    - The Apps will open if the OData App specific services are enabled from Trusted RFC (HUB deployment) / Embedded from Authorization objects.

- They are Three layers of Authorization Flow:

        UI - FLP Launchpad
            (Apps, Tiles, Target Mapping, Catalogs, Spaces, & Pages)
                        |
                        |
                        v
        ODATA API
        - OData Services
        - IWSG / IWSV
        - Linked to S_SERVICE authorization object.
                        |
                        |
                        v
        Authorization:
        - SAP Classic Authorization - PFCG
        - Coming from SU24 Data, Maintain in PFCG using authorization Tab.


##### UI Layer - App
- FLP Launchpad
- Tile (Visual Representation or action of an app)
- Target Mapping (Associated link to tile when event click on the tile)
-   App (Replacement of transaction code with app based UI actual task where user get information)

##### UI Layer - Catalogs

##### Technical Catalog:
- These are built by SAP for the modules and having wide variety of apps, target mappings, and tiles.
- Not recommended for business users.

```<> These catalog holds the original information about the Tiles, target mapping, and apps that was standardly created by SAP. which have its original data.```

##### Business Catalog:
- These are modified to business requirement and customize into smaller containers in what are required for one business area in the respective modules.
- These contain smaller where respective module required tiles, target mappings, and module related apps.
- Ex: Finance Manager, Accountant related apps

```<> These are modified version from the technical catalog where necessary required tiles, catalog, & target mapping where referenced from technical catalog.```

##### Custom Catalog:
- Any catalog with Z* version respective to the job specific is know as custom catalog.

- These are the container that groups similar fiori applications in the orgainzation. In general collection of apps.

To manage catalog we got to:

    old version:
    /UI2/FLPD_CUST - Launchpad Designer (Client Specific)

    New Version:
    /UI2/FLPCM_CUST - FLP Content Manager: Client Specific

##### Step by step process to create a Custom Catalog:

>> - Go to content manager
>> - Inside content manager
>> - Under Catalog Tab
>> - Take relevant Standard / Business Catalog as reference. 
     ```Ex: SAP_SD_BC_SO_PROC_OP - This is a standard catalog ID created by SAP using this we will built our custom catalog for our business area.```
>> - Once you give the referene catalog ID: click on Go
>> - You can see all the information about the catalog.
>> - Select the Catalog
>> - Now click on 'Copy' Tab under Catalogs (Middle section).
>> - Give New Custom catalog ID: "ZCUST_SD_BC_SO_PROC_OP"
>> - Title: "Sales - Sales Order Processing(Custom)"
>> - Click okay
>> - It will ask for transport request
>> - If you have charm for transport use the charm (Customize TR) that is created in ISP System.

###### Manually Creating TR:
>> - Create New Request (pop up)
>> - Short Description: Fiori Catalog Creation
>> - Task: PWIPRUK (Developer User ID)
>> - Check Source Client, Target
>> - SAVE and Okay.

>> - Once done the custom version of catalog is visible in catalog section in Z* version catalog. Scope: Customize

###### Note: If you go in deep you can see the reference is taken from original Technical catalog but not the business catalog we copied from.

##### Three Scope in Fiori:

- ###### Customization:
    - Any changes on system wide / client specific will affect the user in the client.

- ###### Configuration:
    - If you have any changes that would affect in the cross clients. These are very rare changes that takes place.

- ###### Personalizition: 
    - This is user level, any changes made from end user, it will affect the user itself.


- If you have any associated role you add the above custom catalog through PFCG or else follow below path in creating a role and assignment.

##### Role Creation associated to Custom Catalog:
>> - Go to PFCG
>> - Role: "Z_CUST_SALES_REP"
>> - Single Role
>> - Short & Long Description
>> - Menu >> (Transaction side drop down)
>> - SAP Fiori Launchpad: choose (Catalog, Spaces, or Pages).
    {We will choose catalog as we created a custom catalog}
>> - Give Catalog ID: ZCUST_SD_BC_SO_PROC_OP (Z* version).
>> - Select Local frontend server (If we are creating in Embedded system)
>> - Select Remote Frintend server (If you are creating or fetching from HUB deployment)
>> - Check box the Include application (Which add the IWSG/IWSV Services).
>> - Click on okay (It will add to the role).
>> - Authorization Tab: Change Authorization Data >> Maintain necessary data
>> - SAVE and Generate.

- Once the above path is completed, you need to go to  Fiori Front End, but you won't get the tiles in the homepage then you need to:

>> - Go to App finder
>> - Select Daily required Tiles by clicking on (+) symbol on the tiles.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
##### Creating a Catlog using: FLP Designer

Transaction: /UI2/FLPD_CUST - (Launchpad Designer - Client Specific).

>> - Go to Fiori Designer
>> - Under Catalog 
>> - Give technical /business catalog that you want to take reference from.
>> - Once you got the catalog hold and drag it, you will find two options:
>> - 1. New Catalog with reference
>> - 2. Delete
>> - Drag and drop on 1st option: New Catalog with reference
>> - It will redirct a popup: 'Copy Catalog'
>> - Give Original Catalog Title: "Sales- Sales Order Processing",
>> - Title: "Sales - Sales Order Processing"
>> - ID: "ZCUST_SD_BC_SO_PO_TEST"
>> - Copy

-  Observation: Once you select the catalog you can see that the Tiles are dotted border and you can understand that the tiles are referenced from another source/original catalog.

>> - On top right side you will find settings
>> - Click on the settings
>> - A small popup of "Assign Transport Request"
>> - Uncheck: None
>> - If you look into Customizing Request drop down you find nothing.

    SE01 - { >> You need to come backend system
            >> Create Request
            >> Customizing Request
            >> Click Okay
            }
                  
                  (or)

            Manually Creating TR:
            - Create New Request (pop up)
            - Short Description: Fiori Catalog Creation
            - Task: PWIPRUK (Developer User ID)
            - Check Source Client, Target
            - SAVE and Okay.

>> - Now if you look you can find under the drop down for TR created.
>> - Select the TR
>> - Click okay.

- When ever the user logs into Fiori Launchpad he/she will have access to the roles and tiles associated with catalog but he/she won't be able to see the tiles in homepage under his Spaces / pages.

```
Issue:
      So he/she need to go to App Finder and manually select the Apps/Tiles needed which will be hectic if they are more than 20+ to be added. To solve this issue There is concept of Spaces & Pages, which assign to user on role assignment.
```

### Spaces & Pages

##### Spaces: 
- Assigned directly to your business role. It acts as a container holding multiple pages. If a space only has one page, it is visible directly; if multiple pages appear as drop down menu of a space.

##### Pages:
- The actual dashboard view. It is the starting point in the launchpad, designed for your specific work profile.

- It comes in UI layer which doesn't provide any access, their access come from catalog.
- Under a Space you can group related pages as one category

Ex: Space (Finance)
     |
     | - Page (Ledger)
     | - Page (Controlling unit)

- General understanding: (Tab is space) and for Tab they will be drop down which is pages.


##### Create Spaces:

The below is done in Fiori Admin account:

>> - Go to Manage Launchpad Space Tile
>> - Create Space
>> - Space ID: "Z_SP_CUST_SALES_INTERNAL_REP" (Use same role for what its purpose was created).
>> - Space Description: "Internal Sales Representative"
>> - Space Title: "Sales Representative"
>>
            If you have to create a pages along with space check on "Allow create a Page"
            >> Page ID:  "ZPG_SALES_REP"
            >> Page Description: "Sales Representative"
            >> Page Title: "Sales Representative"

            >> Transport Request: 
            >> Create

>> - Once created it will come under space details.
>> - Inside the Space if you select the Page you will find "Page Content"
>> - Add Section Title:  Ex: Sales Order Processing (Where we can design the Page)

>> - On right side you will find catalog where you can add the catalog ID.
>> - Once you give you can find the apps, just select or drag on to the left side of section.

>> - Pick what is necessary for the catalog requirement.
>> - If you need another section you can add below and pick what apps were needed
       
                    >> Add section (+)
                    >> Section Title:  Ex: Manage Sales Order
                    >> Select Tiles and Apps for daily tasks.
>> - Save Preview
>> - SAVE

- Once this is done you can see that Space is not assigned to any role.

>> - Go to PFCG
>> - Take the role that was created for this catalog
>> - Under MENU add the Space
>> - Space ID: "Z_SP_SALES_INTERNAL_REP
>> - Click okay
>> - It will add to Menu level
>> - SAVE

```
Note: You can only add Space in the role and cannot add Pages, so we must add the page to relevant Space and then we need to add that space to role.
```

- If the Space doesn't visible in the Fiori Check if the Space visibility is Enable with status: Visible

      >> Go to Space
      >> Select the Space
      >> You can find on right side: SET VISIBILITY
      >> It will change to status: Visible
      >> Save.

      - After this you can check the Fiori the space will be visible.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
##### Create Page

>> - Manage Launchpad Pages
>> - You will find all the pages
>> - Click on "Create"
>> - Page ID: "ZPG_SALES_REP_2"
>> - Description: "Internal Sales Rep 2"
>> - Title: "Sales Representative 2"
>> - Transport:
>> - Create

>> - Go to Spaces
>> - Under Pages
>> - Click on "Edit"
>> - Search for Pages that need to be added to the spaces
>> - Click on check box or Add (This will add the page to Space)
>> - Save

- [We are doing the above step as while assigning to the role we can only add the Space but not the page. This step is crucial].

>> - Under Page Content (We have to design the Page with Tiles and Apps)
>> - Go to Edit
>> - Section title: "Reports" (If you need more sections through (+) add section)

>> - On right side: Catalog
>> - Search for the catalog >> select
>> - Drag or select Apps / Tiles that required.

>> - Now go to "Space Assignment"
>> - On right side you will find: "Manage Launchpad Spaces"
>> - Select the spaces if already exists or else in that section create a new space with earlier process.

>> - Under Pages >> On right side select the page that was created.
>> - Add
>> - It will visible in Pages Category
>> - SAVE

```
Note: If the role doesn't have the underlying catalog, when you add a random App or Tile it won't be visible and you will be getting a warning that catalog access is missing.
```

### Fiori Authorization Flow

